Pharroa. XXV

H. The Royal Manuscript, 13 D. v. (fol.

38,) 01 the thirteenth century, written upon
vellum in lolio, formerly belonging to the mo-
nastery 01 St. Albans. It commences with the
worda, ‘A principio mundi usque ad Diluvium,’

(§4,) to which it prefixes the rubric, ‘Incipiunt ·

Gesta Brittonum a Gilda Sapiente composita.’
lt omits the GenealogieS, but contains the
names 01 the Cities and the Miracles.

Ι. The Royal Manuscript, 13 B. vii. upon
paper, in small folio, written in the sixteenth
century. It contains the shorter Prologue‚ to
which is prefixed the title, ‘Incipit Eulogium
brevissimum Britanniae insulae, quod Nennius
Elvodugi discipulus congregavit’ After the
Prologue are the wordS, ⁴ Explicit Eulogium.
Incipit res gesta a Ninio 'Sapiente composita'
It contains tho names 01 the Cities and the
Miracles, omitting the GenealogieS, and seems
to have beon copied from a manuscript con-
taining the text as arranged in that marked G.
Seo'p. 6, noto⁴; 11, note²¹3 13, note⁴; 21,
note¹3 28, note 15; 35, note ¹. ·

’ K. The manuscript numberod cxxxix. in y

the library 01 Corpus Christi Collega, Cama
bridge. Itis a folin volume, written upon
vellum, (apparently at Durham, see this Pre-
face, § 15, note ¹,) in the thirteenth century.
lt contains the second 01 11ιο two Prologues,
to which it prefixes the title, ‘Eulogium
brevissimum Britanniae insulae, quod Ninnius
Elvodugi discipulus congregavit! The work
itsels is entitled, ‘Res gestae a Ninio Sa-
piente compositae! Many 01 the additionS,
which are written upon its margins, have been
introduced into the text os other copies, see
p. 6, 0010 ⁴3 8, 0010 ²⁰; 13, 0010 ⁴3 14, 0010 ¹³3

 

